README.md, before:

[![Open Source Love](https://firstcontributions.github.io/open-source-badges/badges/open-source-v1/open-source.svg)](https://github.com/firstcontributions/open-source-badges)
[<img align="right" width="150" src="assets/join-slack-team.png">](https://join.slack.com/t/firstcontributors/shared_invite/enQtNjkxNzQwNzA2MTMwLTVhMWJjNjg2ODRlNWZhNjIzYjgwNDIyZWYwZjhjYTQ4OTBjMWM0MmFhZDUxNzBiYzczMGNiYzcxNjkzZDZlMDM)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-green.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![Open Source Helpers](https://www.codetriage.com/roshanjossey/first-contributions/badges/users.svg)](https://www.codetriage.com/roshanjossey/first-contributions)


# First Contributions

It's hard. It's always hard the first time you do something. Especially when you are collaborating, making mistakes isn't a comfortable thing. We wanted to simplify the way new open-source contributors learn & contribute for the first time.

Reading articles & watching tutorials can help, but what's better than actually doing the stuff in a practice environment? This project aims at providing guidance & simplifying the way beginners make their first contribution. If you are looking to make your first contribution, follow the steps below.

#### *If you're not comfortable with command line, [here are tutorials using GUI tools.]( #tutorials-using-other-tools )*

#### *Read this in [other languages](translations/Translations.md).*

[:bangladesh:](translations/README.bn.md)
[🇧🇬](translations/README.bg.md)
[🇧🇷](translations/README.pt_br.md)
[<img src="assets/catalan1.png" width="22">](translations/README.ca.md)
[🇨🇳](translations/README.chs.md)
[🇨🇿](translations/README.cs.md)
[🇩🇪](translations/README.de.md)
[🇩🇰](translations/README.da.md)
[🇪🇬](translations/README.eg.md)
[🇪🇸](translations/README.es.md)
[🇫🇷](translations/README.fr.md)
[🏴](translations/README.gl.md)
[🇬🇷](translations/README.gr.md)
[🇬🇪](translations/README.ge.md)
[🇭🇺](translations/README.hu.md)
[🇮🇩](translations/README.id.md)
[🇮🇱](translations/README.hb.md)
[🇮🇳](translations/Translations.md)
[🇮🇷](translations/README.fa.md)
[🇮🇷](translations/README.fa.en.md)
[🇮🇹](translations/README.it.md)
[🇯🇵](translations/README.ja.md)
[🇰🇪](translations/README.kws.md)
[🇰🇷 🇰🇵](translations/README.ko.md)
[🇱🇹](translations/README.lt.md)
[🇲🇩 🇷🇴](translations/README.ro.md)
[🇲🇲](translations/README.mm_unicode.md)
[🇲🇰](translations/README.mk.md)
[🇲🇽](translations/README.mx.md)
[🇲🇾](translations/README.my.md)
[🇳🇱](translations/README.nl.md)
[🇳🇬](translations/README.igb.md)
[🇳🇴](translations/README.no.md)
[🇳🇵](translations/README.np.md)
[🇵🇭](translations/README.tl.md)
[<img src="assets/pirate.png" width="22">](translations/README.en-pirate.md)
[🇵🇰](translations/README.ur.md)
[🇵🇱](translations/README.pl.md)
[🇵🇹](translations/README.pt-pt.md)
[🇷🇺](translations/README.ru.md)
[🇸🇦](translations/README.ar.md)
[🇸🇪](translations/README.se.md)
[:slovakia:](translations/README.slk.md)
[:slovenia:](translations/README.sl.md)
[🇹🇭](translations/README.th.md)
[🇹🇷](translations/README.tr.md)
[🇹🇼](translations/README.cht.md)
[🇺🇦](translations/README.ua.md)
[🇻🇳](translations/README.vn.md)
[🇿🇦](translations/README.zul.md)
[🇿🇦](translations/README.afk.md)
[🇰🇪](translations/README.kws.md)
[🇳🇬](translations/README.igb.md)
[🇱🇻](translations/README.lv.md)
[🇫🇮](translations/README.fi.md)



<img align="right" width="300" src="assets/fork.png" alt="fork this repository" />

If you don't have git on your machine, [install it]( https://help.github.com/articles/set-up-git/).

## Fork this repository

Fork this repository by clicking on the fork button on the top of this page.
This will create a copy of this repository in your account.

## Clone the repository

<img align="right" width="300" src="assets/clone.png" alt="clone this repository" />

Now clone the forked repository to your machine. Go to your GitHub account, open the forked repository, click on the clone button and then click the *copy to clipboard* icon.

Open a terminal and run the following git command:

```
git clone "url you just copied"
```
where "url you just copied" (without the quotation marks) is the url to this repository (your fork of this project). See the previous steps to obtain the url.

<img align="right" width="300" src="assets/copy-to-clipboard.png" alt="copy URL to clipboard" />

For example:
```
git clone https://github.com/this-is-you/first-contributions.git
```
where `this-is-you` is your GitHub username. Here you're copying the contents of the first-contributions repository on GitHub to your computer.

## Create a branch

Change to the repository directory on your computer (if you are not already there):

```
cd first-contributions
```
Now create a branch using the `git checkout` command:
```
git checkout -b <add-your-new-branch-name>
```

For example:
```
git checkout -b add-alonzo-church
```
(The name of the branch does not need to have the word *add* in it, but it's a reasonable thing to include because the purpose of this branch is to add your name to a list.)

## Make necessary changes and commit those changes

Now open `Contributors.md` file in a text editor, add your name to it. Don't add it at the beginning or end of the file. Put it anywhere in between. Now, save the file.

<img align="right" width="450" src="assets/git-status.png" alt="git status" />


If you go to the project directory and execute the command `git status`, you'll see there are changes.


Add those changes to the branch you just created using the `git add` command:

```
git add Contributors.md
```

Now commit those changes using the `git commit` command:
```
git commit -m "Add <your-name> to Contributors list"
```
replacing `<your-name>` with your name.

## Push changes to GitHub

Push your changes using the command `git push`:
```
git push origin <add-your-branch-name>
```
replacing `<add-your-branch-name>` with the name of the branch you created earlier.

## Submit your changes for review

If you go to your repository on GitHub, you'll see a  `Compare & pull request` button. Click on that button.

<img style="float: right;" src="assets/compare-and-pull.png" alt="create a pull request" />

Now submit the pull request.

<img style="float: right;" src="assets/submit-pull-request.png" alt="submit pull request" />

Soon I'll be merging all your changes into the master branch of this project. You will get a notification email once the changes have been merged.

## Where to go from here?

Congrats!  You just completed the standard _fork -> clone -> edit -> PR_ workflow that you'll encounter often as a contributor!

Celebrate your contribution and share it with your friends and followers by going to [web app](https://firstcontributions.github.io/#social-share).

You could join our slack team in case you need any help or have any questions. [Join slack team](https://join.slack.com/t/firstcontributors/shared_invite/enQtNjkxNzQwNzA2MTMwLTVhMWJjNjg2ODRlNWZhNjIzYjgwNDIyZWYwZjhjYTQ4OTBjMWM0MmFhZDUxNzBiYzczMGNiYzcxNjkzZDZlMDM).

Now let's get you started with contributing to other projects. We've compiled a list of projects with easy issues you can get started on. Check out [the list of projects in the web app](https://firstcontributions.github.io/#project-list).

### [Additional material](additional-material/git_workflow_scenarios/additional-material.md)


## Tutorials Using Other Tools

| <a href="github-desktop-tutorial.md"><img alt="GitHub Desktop" src="https://desktop.github.com/images/desktop-icon.svg" width="100"></a> | <a href="github-windows-vs2017-tutorial.md"><img alt="Visual Studio 2017" src="https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/c/cd/Visual_Studio_2017_Logo.svg" width="100"></a> | <a href="gitkraken-tutorial.md"><img alt="GitKraken" src="./assets/gk-icon.png" width="100"></a> | <a href="github-windows-vs-code-tutorial.md"><img alt="VS Code" src="https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/2/2d/Visual_Studio_Code_1.18_icon.svg" width=100></a> | <a href="sourcetree-macos-tutorial.md"><img alt="Sourcetree App" src="https://wac-cdn.atlassian.com/dam/jcr:81b15cde-be2e-4f4a-8af7-9436f4a1b431/Sourcetree-icon-blue.svg" width=100></a> | <a href="github-windows-intellij-tutorial.md"><img alt="IntelliJ IDEA" src="https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d5/IntelliJ_IDEA_Logo.svg" width=100></a> |
| ------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| [GitHub Desktop](github-desktop-tutorial.md)                 | [Visual Studio 2017](github-windows-vs2017-tutorial.md)      | [GitKraken](gitkraken-tutorial.md)                           | [Visual Studio Code](github-windows-vs-code-tutorial.md)     | [Atlassian Sourcetree](sourcetree-macos-tutorial.md)         | [IntelliJ IDEA](github-windows-intellij-tutorial.md)         |

Commit message:

Add a tutorial to set up Git if the user in question is going to use it often.

README.md, after:

﻿[![Open Source Love](https://firstcontributions.github.io/open-source-badges/badges/open-source-v1/open-source.svg)](https://github.com/firstcontributions/open-source-badges)
[<img align="right" width="150" src="assets/join-slack-team.png">](https://join.slack.com/t/firstcontributors/shared_invite/enQtNjkxNzQwNzA2MTMwLTVhMWJjNjg2ODRlNWZhNjIzYjgwNDIyZWYwZjhjYTQ4OTBjMWM0MmFhZDUxNzBiYzczMGNiYzcxNjkzZDZlMDM)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-green.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![Open Source Helpers](https://www.codetriage.com/roshanjossey/first-contributions/badges/users.svg)](https://www.codetriage.com/roshanjossey/first-contributions)


# First Contributions

It's hard. It's always hard the first time you do something. Especially when you are collaborating, making mistakes isn't a comfortable thing. We wanted to simplify the way new open-source contributors learn & contribute for the first time.

Reading articles & watching tutorials can help, but what's better than actually doing the stuff in a practice environment? This project aims at providing guidance & simplifying the way beginners make their first contribution. If you are looking to make your first contribution, follow the steps below.

#### *If you're not comfortable with command line, [here are tutorials using GUI tools.]( #tutorials-using-other-tools )*

#### *Read this in [other languages](translations/Translations.md).*

[:bangladesh:](translations/README.bn.md)
[🇧🇬](translations/README.bg.md)
[🇧🇷](translations/README.pt_br.md)
[<img src="assets/catalan1.png" width="22">](translations/README.ca.md)
[🇨🇳](translations/README.chs.md)
[🇨🇿](translations/README.cs.md)
[🇩🇪](translations/README.de.md)
[🇩🇰](translations/README.da.md)
[🇪🇬](translations/README.eg.md)
[🇪🇸](translations/README.es.md)
[🇫🇷](translations/README.fr.md)
[🏴](translations/README.gl.md)
[🇬🇷](translations/README.gr.md)
[🇬🇪](translations/README.ge.md)
[🇭🇺](translations/README.hu.md)
[🇮🇩](translations/README.id.md)
[🇮🇱](translations/README.hb.md)
[🇮🇳](translations/Translations.md)
[🇮🇷](translations/README.fa.md)
[🇮🇷](translations/README.fa.en.md)
[🇮🇹](translations/README.it.md)
[🇯🇵](translations/README.ja.md)
[🇰🇪](translations/README.kws.md)
[🇰🇷 🇰🇵](translations/README.ko.md)
[🇱🇹](translations/README.lt.md)
[🇲🇩 🇷🇴](translations/README.ro.md)
[🇲🇲](translations/README.mm_unicode.md)
[🇲🇰](translations/README.mk.md)
[🇲🇽](translations/README.mx.md)
[🇲🇾](translations/README.my.md)
[🇳🇱](translations/README.nl.md)
[🇳🇬](translations/README.igb.md)
[🇳🇴](translations/README.no.md)
[🇳🇵](translations/README.np.md)
[🇵🇭](translations/README.tl.md)
[<img src="assets/pirate.png" width="22">](translations/README.en-pirate.md)
[🇵🇰](translations/README.ur.md)
[🇵🇱](translations/README.pl.md)
[🇵🇹](translations/README.pt-pt.md)
[🇷🇺](translations/README.ru.md)
[🇸🇦](translations/README.ar.md)
[🇸🇪](translations/README.se.md)
[:slovakia:](translations/README.slk.md)
[:slovenia:](translations/README.sl.md)
[🇹🇭](translations/README.th.md)
[🇹🇷](translations/README.tr.md)
[🇹🇼](translations/README.cht.md)
[🇺🇦](translations/README.ua.md)
[🇻🇳](translations/README.vn.md)
[🇿🇦](translations/README.zul.md)
[🇿🇦](translations/README.afk.md)
[🇰🇪](translations/README.kws.md)
[🇳🇬](translations/README.igb.md)
[🇱🇻](translations/README.lv.md)
[🇫🇮](translations/README.fi.md)



<img align="right" width="300" src="assets/fork.png" alt="fork this repository" />

If you don't have git on your machine, [install it]( https://help.github.com/articles/set-up-git/). [Be sure to follow these steps if you want to use git often after reading this.](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-First-Time-Git-Setup)

## Fork this repository

Fork this repository by clicking on the fork button on the top of this page.
This will create a copy of this repository in your account.

## Clone the repository

<img align="right" width="300" src="assets/clone.png" alt="clone this repository" />

Now clone the forked repository to your machine. Go to your GitHub account, open the forked repository, click on the clone button and then click the *copy to clipboard* icon.

Open a terminal and run the following git command:

```
git clone "url you just copied"
```
where "url you just copied" (without the quotation marks) is the url to this repository (your fork of this project). See the previous steps to obtain the url.

<img align="right" width="300" src="assets/copy-to-clipboard.png" alt="copy URL to clipboard" />

For example:
```
git clone https://github.com/this-is-you/first-contributions.git
```
where `this-is-you` is your GitHub username. Here you're copying the contents of the first-contributions repository on GitHub to your computer.

## Create a branch

Change to the repository directory on your computer (if you are not already there):

```
cd first-contributions
```
Now create a branch using the `git checkout` command:
```
git checkout -b <add-your-new-branch-name>
```

For example:
```
git checkout -b add-alonzo-church
```
(The name of the branch does not need to have the word *add* in it, but it's a reasonable thing to include because the purpose of this branch is to add your name to a list.)

## Make necessary changes and commit those changes

Now open `Contributors.md` file in a text editor, add your name to it. Don't add it at the beginning or end of the file. Put it anywhere in between. Now, save the file.

<img align="right" width="450" src="assets/git-status.png" alt="git status" />


If you go to the project directory and execute the command `git status`, you'll see there are changes.


Add those changes to the branch you just created using the `git add` command:

```
git add Contributors.md
```

Now commit those changes using the `git commit` command:
```
git commit -m "Add <your-name> to Contributors list"
```
replacing `<your-name>` with your name.

## Push changes to GitHub

Push your changes using the command `git push`:
```
git push origin <add-your-branch-name>
```
replacing `<add-your-branch-name>` with the name of the branch you created earlier.

## Submit your changes for review

If you go to your repository on GitHub, you'll see a  `Compare & pull request` button. Click on that button.

<img style="float: right;" src="assets/compare-and-pull.png" alt="create a pull request" />

Now submit the pull request.

<img style="float: right;" src="assets/submit-pull-request.png" alt="submit pull request" />

Soon I'll be merging all your changes into the master branch of this project. You will get a notification email once the changes have been merged.

## Where to go from here?

Congrats!  You just completed the standard _fork -> clone -> edit -> PR_ workflow that you'll encounter often as a contributor!

Celebrate your contribution and share it with your friends and followers by going to [web app](https://firstcontributions.github.io/#social-share).

You could join our slack team in case you need any help or have any questions. [Join slack team](https://join.slack.com/t/firstcontributors/shared_invite/enQtNjkxNzQwNzA2MTMwLTVhMWJjNjg2ODRlNWZhNjIzYjgwNDIyZWYwZjhjYTQ4OTBjMWM0MmFhZDUxNzBiYzczMGNiYzcxNjkzZDZlMDM).

Now let's get you started with contributing to other projects. We've compiled a list of projects with easy issues you can get started on. Check out [the list of projects in the web app](https://firstcontributions.github.io/#project-list).

### [Additional material](additional-material/git_workflow_scenarios/additional-material.md)


## Tutorials Using Other Tools

| <a href="github-desktop-tutorial.md"><img alt="GitHub Desktop" src="https://desktop.github.com/images/desktop-icon.svg" width="100"></a> | <a href="github-windows-vs2017-tutorial.md"><img alt="Visual Studio 2017" src="https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/c/cd/Visual_Studio_2017_Logo.svg" width="100"></a> | <a href="gitkraken-tutorial.md"><img alt="GitKraken" src="./assets/gk-icon.png" width="100"></a> | <a href="github-windows-vs-code-tutorial.md"><img alt="VS Code" src="https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/2/2d/Visual_Studio_Code_1.18_icon.svg" width=100></a> | <a href="sourcetree-macos-tutorial.md"><img alt="Sourcetree App" src="https://wac-cdn.atlassian.com/dam/jcr:81b15cde-be2e-4f4a-8af7-9436f4a1b431/Sourcetree-icon-blue.svg" width=100></a> | <a href="github-windows-intellij-tutorial.md"><img alt="IntelliJ IDEA" src="https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d5/IntelliJ_IDEA_Logo.svg" width=100></a> |
| ------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| [GitHub Desktop](github-desktop-tutorial.md)                 | [Visual Studio 2017](github-windows-vs2017-tutorial.md)      | [GitKraken](gitkraken-tutorial.md)                           | [Visual Studio Code](github-windows-vs-code-tutorial.md)     | [Atlassian Sourcetree](sourcetree-macos-tutorial.md)         | [IntelliJ IDEA](github-windows-intellij-tutorial.md)         |
